{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs24\lang9 CSCI 3171 - B00509771 - James McLean - Assignment #2\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b 1a)\b0\par
A [a,r11,A,R11,50001,23,DATA],\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 R1 [r12,r21,R12,R21,50001,23, DATA],\par
R2 [r22,r42,R22,R42,50001,23,DATA],\par
R4 [r41,r32,R41,R32,50001,23,DATA],\par
R3 [r31,x,R31,X,50001,23,DATA],\par
X\par
\b 1b)\b0\par
X [x,r31,X,R31,23,50001,DATA],\par
R3 [r32,r41,R32,R41,23,50001,DATA],\par
R4 [r42,r22,R42,R22,23,50001,DATA],\par
R2 [r21,r12,R21,R12,23,50001,DATA],\par
R1 [r11,a,R11,A,23,50001,DATA],\par
A\par
\b 1c)\b0\tab\par
X [x,r31,X,R31,50001,22,DATA],\par
R3 [r32,r41,R32,R41,50001,22,DATA],\par
R4 [r42,r22,R42,R22,50001,22,DATA],\par
R2 [r21,r12,R21,R12,50001,22,DATA],\par
R1 [r11,a,R11,A,50001,22,DATA]\par
A\par
\b 1d)\b0\par
A [a,r11,A,R11,22,50001,DATA],\par
R1 [r12,r21,R12,R21,22,50001,DATA],\par
R2 [r22,r42,R22,R42,22,50001,DATA],\par
R4 [r41,r32,R41,R32,22,50001,DATA],\par
R3 [r31,x,R31,X,22,50001,DATA],\par
X\par
\b 1e)\par
\b0 A [a,r11,A,R11,50001,80,D]\par
R1 [r12,r21,R12,R21,80,50001,DATA],\par
R2 [r22,r42,R22,R42,80,50001,DATA],\par
R4 [r41,r32,R41,R32,80,50001,DATA],\par
R3 [r31,x,R31,X,80,50001,DATA],\par
\b 1f)\par
\b0 X [x,r31,X,R31,50001,80,DATA],\par
R3 [r32,r41,R32,R41,50001,80,DATA],\par
R4 [r42,r22,R42,R22,50001,80,DATA],\par
R2 [r21,r12,R21,R12,50001,80,DATA],\par
R1 [r11,a,R11,A,50001,80,DATA]\par
\b 1g)\b0\par
X [x,r31,X,R31,50001,21,DATA],\par
R3 [r32,r41,R32,R41,50001,21,DATA],\par
R4 [r42,r22,R42,R22,50001,21,DATA],\par
R2 [r21,r12,R21,R12,50001,21,DATA],\par
R1 [r11,a,R11,A,50001,21,DATA]\par
A\par
\b 1h)\b0  (Possibly port 22, 21 is for communication and 22 is for transfer)\par
A [a,r11,A,R11,50001,21,D]\par
R1 [r12,r21,R12,R21,21,50001,DATA],\par
R2 [r22,r42,R22,R42,21,50001,DATA],\par
R4 [r41,r32,R41,R32,21,50001,DATA],\par
R3 [r31,x,R31,X,21,50001,DATA],\par
X\par
\b 1i)  (Assigns new random port to client for second SSH session)\par
\b0 X [x,r31,X,R31,50002,21,DATA],\par
R3 [r32,r41,R32,R41,50002,21,DATA],\par
R4 [r42,r22,R42,R22,50002,21,DATA],\par
R2 [r21,r12,R21,R12,50002,21,DATA],\par
R1 [r11,a,R11,A,50002,21,DATA]\par
\par
\b 2a)\b0\tab quotation4.htm\par
\b 2b)\b0\tab HTTP 1.1\par
\b 2c)\b0\tab text/plain, text/html, image/jpeg, image/gif, audio/mpeg, audio/vnf.wave, \tab video/mp4, video/wmv\par
\b 2d)\b0\tab application/* indicates that all subtypes within the media-range of the type \tab application, */* indicates that all media types are acceptable\par
\b 2e)\b0\tab en-us (American English), en-gb (British English), en (English), fr (French), fr-CH \tab (French - Switzerland), da (Danish), ar (Arabic), cs (Czech)\par
\b 2f)\b0\tab Relative quality factor refers to an estimate of the users preference for the languages \tab specified in that range. \par
\b 2g)\b0\tab en-us  (American English) is most preferred, and en (General English) is least \tab preferred.\par
\b 2h)\b0\tab all entries after the initial entries and language entries marked with a relative \tab quantity are equal in weight following the previous weighted entry in the list.\par
\b 2i)\b0\tab The user last received a copy of the file on Mon, 07 Oct 2019 18:08:57 -0700\par
\b 2j)\b0\tab The client's browser is Mozilla FIrefox 5.0 on Windows NT 6.1\par
\par
\b 3) Application Layer Protocol Report: TELNET PROTOCOL\par
General Information:\par
\tab\b0 Telnet is a shortening of "TELetype NETwork" which is used to test network pathways and information. The Telnet client itself allows users to check network ports. This port checking can be used to prevent possible, "Security risk[s] that can be exploited by malicious programs or viruses," (Acronis, Accessed October 22nd, 2021), which can be caused by people unintentionally leaving vulnerable ports open. Conversely, if a port is expected and required to be open and that port is closed, the program will throw an error or a malfunction. Telnet operates on network PORT 23 as a designated port for the service.\par
\tab Telnet was originally built as a computer protocol for, "...interacting with remote computers," (Acronis), for the purpose of testing network settings, configurations, and vulnerabilities. The Telnet command line interface provides the user with a number of commands that allows them to test connectivity.\par
\tab While most operating systems have supported Telnet software and functionality in the past on Unix-like systems such as Mac or Linux, and Windows operating systems, there are other contemporary replacements, such as "netcat" for mac (Kromin, Accessed October 22nd, 2021). The utility itself is disabled by default on most machines, however it is possible to configure most machines to use telnet or similar software. Sometimes it's necessary to create a new Inbound Rule on a devices firewall to allow.\par
\b RFC Specifications;\par
\b0 TELNET Protocol has the purpose of, "provid[ing] a fairly general, bi-directional, eight-bit byte oriented communications facility," (Datatracker, Accessed Oct 22nd, 2021). It provides a "standard method of interfacing terminal devices," (Datatracker), which allows multiple terminal devices to make terminal to terminal communication over a network.\par
Telnet protocol is  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connection," (Datatracker), for transmitting data and allowing "Telnet Control Information," (Datatracker), to be interspersed in the network terminal communications in order to do port checking for security and functionality. \par
In a Telnet connection, it is assumed to "originate and temrinate in a 'Network Virtual Terminal',", (Datatracker), which is an "imaginary device" which provides a "network-wide, intermediate representation of a cononical terminal," (Datatracker). This eliminates the need for each node in a network to retain specific information about the packets and frames sent through the system and allows users to focus on the main purpose of monitoring network connectivity.\par
According to RFC 854, "The principle of negotiated options...[notes that]...hosts will wish to provide additonal services over and above those available within NVT," (1983). These involve protocol options such as "DO, DON'T, WILL, WON'T," (RFC 854), to allow a user or server access to more options or information for accessing and monitoring data.\par
The NVT itself is a, "...bi-directional character device...[with a]...printer and keyboard," (RFC 854). The printer responds to the data that is provided through the Telnet requests that are made, and the keyboard is responsible for creating outgoing messages that interact with the incoming data. The code-set involved in this interaction consists of a "seven-bit USASCII in an eight-bit field [unless modified]," (RFC 854).\par
Data transmission through a Telnet connection is, "Intrinsicall Duplex", (RFC 854), however the "NVT is to be viewed as a half-duplex device operating in a line-buffered mode," (RFC 854), meaning that until options are changed, that default conditions persist.\b  \b0 Options are negotiated as follows: "...if there is availability of local buffer space...data should be accumulated in the host where it is generated until a complete line of data is ready for transmission [or some locally defined explicit signal]," (RFC 854).\par
Processes involved are the, "Interrupt Process (IP)", which suspends or terminates the telnet process, an, "Abort Output (AO)", which will provide a prompt to abort the process, also clearing the data within the buffer, "Are You There (AYT)m which alows some evidence that the system is still performing the intended actions, "Erase Character (EC,), which "deletes the last preceding undelkted character or, "print position"," (RFC 854), which is typically used to edit user input in the case of incorrect typing. The final proicess is the "Erase Line (EL)," which deletes the data of the current output line in the terminal.\par
\par
References:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.acronis.com/en-us/articles/telnet/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.acronis.com/en-us/articles/telnet/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.igorkromin.net/index.php/2018/07/12/macos-has-a-much-better-tool-than-telnet-for-testing-remote-server-connectivity/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.igorkromin.net/index.php/2018/07/12/macos-has-a-much-better-tool-than-telnet-for-testing-remote-server-connectivity/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc854 }}{\fldrslt{https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc854\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
}
 